Anyone.

Welcome to module number two, the video format design the first video of this module two.

Through the use of video formats, we will be able to use a lot of different real examples covering a broad range of financial assets being foreign exchange commodities, ETFs, stocks.

And we'll use these real life examples in order to basically put in application to what you've supposedly been already been through on the PDF.

Just a little bit.

To recap, we'll have a look again at the different types of positions that we can undertake, long and short.

We will look again at the classical Dow theory, which represents an essential basis of technical analysis and making sure that you understand it in all its concepts as well as, you know, the importance of trend determination using the Dow theory.

We'll also look at through the lens of real examples.

And then we'll go back to the concept of support and resistance as well as we'll start exploring what we've touched upon a little bit on the PDF about convergence errors, or what I like to basically call cluster zones of prices, that these zones that help us to trigger some of our setups and as well help us to determine profit targets and risk levels.

About Emma's exponential moving averages, the double tops and bottoms, Duncan's the Atr's, some of the Fibonacci retracement, the MacD, candlestick patterns that I use quite often, breakouts, which is also a very important setup that we use, etc. etc. etc..

So enjoyed and any questions that you have addressed us an email or prepare your question for the next live webinar, let's jump into the course.

I would like to talk about something that's very important.

And I haven't seen many, many people really discussing this subject before.

Most of the people out there using technical analysis.

We've got two main ways of looking at markets from a technical point of view and from a fundamental point of view.

Now, I must start by stating this fact about me, that I am not a fundamental trader.

I trade what I see based on price action and technical analysis only.

I've tried many times in the past to trade off fundamental analysis and research, but I was never successful at it again.

It doesn't mean fundamental analysis needs to be thrown into the bin, but it just means that it never really worked for me.

So I will obviously take into consideration some fundamental data into my trading of every day when it comes to be prepared, when economics, data or statistics are due, or also during company earnings reports or even company news.

This I will take into account, however, the bulk of my trading and methodology comes from technical analysis and my trading plans and strategies are based upon it.

Now, you might wonder, why am I being so adamant about technical analysis as opposed to fundamental analysis, and why most of the guys out there also pay most attention to technical analysis and charts.

Well, it is necessary to first define what technical analysis is and discuss the philosophical premises on which it is based upon in order to have a clear understanding of what it claims to achieve.

Now, in a nutshell, technical analysis is the study of market price, action, and volume, primarily through the use of charts for the purpose of forecasting future price trends.

At the end of the day, both approaches, fundamental and technical analysis attempt to solve the same problem, that is, to find out the direction price are likely to move and just approach the problem from different directions.

Fundamental analysis studies the cause of the market movement while technical analysis studies the effect.

What is fundamental analysis?

It's really using fundamental data.

Supply, demand, all sorts of economics statistics that we might have, which will help us to come up with our decision to buy or sell any financial instrument.

So what is the rationale behind technical analysis?

There are three strong premises that explain why technical traders like myself use almost exclusively technical analysis, and without strongly believing into every single one of them, technical analysis would not be able to stand on its feet, nor it would make any sense.

So let's try to review these three premises one by one.

The first one, the first statement is the core of it.

The price discounts everything.

I believe that anything that can possibly affect the price fundamentally or psychologically is actually reflected in the current price of that market.

Price action is all that is required.

It reflects shift in supply and demand.

If demand exceeds supply, price should rise and vice versa.

This action is the basis of all economic and fundamental forecasting.

So in reality, you understand that technical analysis is indirectly starting fundamental, i.e. the economic fundamentals are the drivers of a bull or bear market, but the charts do not in themselves cause markets to move up or down.

They simply reflect the bullish or bearish psychology of the market.

So we do not really concern ourselves about the why.

But more pragmatically, we look at the price and what the market is trying to tell us right now.

What's the price action.

We do not attempt to outsmart or outguess it.

We simply study price charts and let the market tell us which way it's most likely to go based on our technical analysis.

We'll find out which way it is most likely to go.

So the market is ultimately stronger than all of us, and it will go wherever it wants to go.

One very important piece of advice don't try to fight the market.

Don't fight it, but instead embrace it.

And that leads us into our second important premises that the trend is ultimately our best friend.

So we move to premise number two, which is one of the very important premise price moves in trends.

The whole purpose of technical analysis is to identify trends in early stages of development.

So unless we do not believe into this premise number two, then we do not have much to discuss any further about technical analysis.

But then again, we haven't invented anything really, nor there's really anything new under the sun.

And in fact it is really embedded in the core of law of physics that states, according to Newton, that the objects at rest remain at rest, and the objects that are in motion remain in motion in a straight line, unless they acted upon by an unbalanced force.

That is to say that once the market is in motion, it will continue on its trend until it reverses.

That is our job, to detect the point of inflection and to jump on and off the train.

Our aim is not to try picking tops and bottoms.

It's important that I repeat that.

Our aim is not to try picking tops or bottoms.

The following slides.

We'll be looking at some of the latest trends that we've seen over the past few years.

For instance, we've got the S&P 500.

The S&P 500 has literally been on a massive bull market since March 2009.

Following up basically the credit crisis.

We can see that here.

Now, we reached the bottom in March 2009, and since then it's been an almost straight up a nine year bull market ongoing.

Well, when will it stop?

I have no clue.

I have no crystal ball and I wish I had.

But at this stage, it shows you how powerful the trend can be and how long it can remain.

And let's look at another instrument that has been quite fancy and fashionable these past few years as well the Bitcoin.

The Bitcoin at a massive rally starting in 2017.

In fact, if you go back, you can't see really on the price because you should have a log scale and you could see that the Bitcoin originally, when it started back in 2009, was trading around $1 bitcoin.

And so even going from $1 to $1,000.

You basically made 1000 times your money.

But look at what we've seen in 2017.

Well, the price basically went from almost $1,000 all the way to two 20,000.

Back in December, then went back to a range market where we've been stuck around 6000, 7000.

It shows you again the importance to believe in trend and not to try to fight the trend.

Let's move on to the third premise, which is that history tends to repeat itself.

So as to the third premise of technical analysis, I believe that price ultimately reflects human psychology.

And the recent field of behavioral finance has flourished and showed how so many different human factors, many related to greed and fear, have influenced human behavior in the exact same way for hundreds and hundreds of years, creating the same similar booms and busts phenomena throughout history.

So I'm a big believer that human psychology barely changed throughout the centuries, and the essential factor explains that why we often get cycles of history repeating itself, disguised under different names or shapes of events.

We call that the credit crunch.

We call that the tech bubble.

We call that the crypto craze.

We call that the Ponzi scheme, whatever it is.

I personally believe that market prices act as a leading indicator of the fundamentals, since all current known fundamentals have already been discounted in the market.

As we've seen in previous number one fundamental analysis might provide for great insight and give us some strong clues that a certain market might be about to reverse.

However, always remember that the market can remain irrational a lot longer than you can stay solvent.

I did not come up with that brilliant sentence, but the economist John Maynard Keynes came up with it.

So that is also the reason why technical analysis provides us with precise and tangible entry and exit points, whereas fundamental analysis can remain a lot more vague in its timing.

According to legendary stock market wizards Jesse Livermore, all three times people have basically acted and reacted the same way in the market as a result of greed, fear, ignorance and hope.

That is why the numerical formation and patterns recur on a constant basis.

According to him, also, it's useless to try to understand the reasons behind a stock move because there might be a specific reason known or still unknown to the public.

But the reason might only come out much later when the stock has already done its big move.

In addition, when the news is made public, it's usually known among most market professionals by then, and so most of the action has already taken place.

It's a famous saying that says buy the rumor, sell the fact.

Also, any powerful stock move can take shape without any real reason.

So while you're searching for a specific reason, you can lose your focus, your discipline.

And whereas you should really simply notice that the stock is moving and take the appropriate decision in the face of it.

Now, one last quote of our dear friend, Mr. Livermore.

I learned early that there's nothing new on Wall Street.

There can't be.

Simply because speculation is as old as the hills.

And whatever happens in the stock market today has happened before and will happen again and again and again.

So I'm want to basically also show you some quotes or very interesting quotes from market wizards.

And because I strongly believe in these three main principles that explain the rationale behind technical analysis, and because I usually dispute the politically correct belief that EMT, the efficient market theory, is the norm.

I believe that technical analysis approach is superior to fundamental analysis.

And therefore.

And that explains the reason behind my choice of approach to markets.

Now, we've discussed the three premises and why technical analysis is so important to me and a lot of other traders in the street.

It might not be for you, and it's important for you to understand where I stand and where the other guy stands.

The goal of this course was really to explain to you why so many of us are using technical analysis as our main weapon out there in the markets.

Some people don't like it, relate to it, and they still think that fundamental analysis is the most important.

And in that case, after having covered these two beginners course about technical analysis, I can't make my point any clearer.

And we will now quickly look at the different types of positions that we can assume in trading long and short positions.

So we've got two ways that we can look at the market.

We can go long, which is basically a technique that consists of buying an asset with the expectation that the asset will rise in value.

So let's look let's have a look at an example.

We've got the stock of Cronos Group.

Let's say that we were buying above $8.15.

We placed a stop $0.60 below.

And so we'll go long the stock we buy the stock Talk about $8.15 with the intent of selling it once we reach some target objectives that we have.

So at this level, $10.15, we will be taking some partial profits.

And in the meantime we'll move our stop loss to break even.

This is a typical long position.

We bought we sold higher.

We made money.

Everyone's happy.

And that's the type of trading that most of the people are comfortable with.

Now let's look at the other type of position that we can undertake in trading, which is a short position also called short selling.

This trading technique consists at selling an asset with the expectation that the asset will go down in value.

That's the exact reverse of the long position.

But remember that in this case we sell first and then we buy it later.

Let's have a look at the following example.

Avalon Holdings let's say that we decided that we go short.

Once it goes below $12.15, we would put our stop quite wide at $15.55.

But given the volatility that we have in this specific stock to give ourselves some flexibility.

Now we sold short the stock at $12.15 or just under and with the intent of covering it, buying it back below $7.50.

We take a partial profit taking and we move our initial stop loss, which was at $15.55 to breakeven.

If we were to assume a 100 share position, that means that when we initially sold short the stock, we would get a $1,215 credit into our account, and when we buy it back at $7.50, then we would have a $750 debit in our account, which is right here.

And that means basically we pocket a profit of $465 on this trade, at least on the partial that on the 100 shares that we.

We've done the trade on and obviously less commissions.

But for argument's sake, we won't take that into account now.

So that's basically the type of position that we can have.

Now remember that in the forex or futures market, a short position can be established at any time in the stock market, it's a little bit more complicated.

And there is an intermediary step where we must borrow the shares from a broker in order to short sell them.

So let us have a quick look at the process of a stock short sale and how it goes.

So we've got a trader, the market and the broker.

The first instance the trader wants to sell short a stock.

So he is going to go to his broker, borrow the stock in order to sell it.

He sells the stock to someone in the market.

Like we discussed in our previous example, $12.15 is the price at which it sells the stocks.

Then he identifies a level where he wants to buy it back, which was $7.50, and the trader buys the shares back, the borrowed shares that are returned to the broker, and therefore the profit or the loss of the trade is realized.

Like we said in the previous page, then, you know, we pocket the $465 profit ex commission.

One last thing that I wanted to talk to you about is the fact that the short position is a lot more speculative and dangerous than the long position.

Obviously when you buy something and you go long, you can buy something at $1 and it can go up to away to 100, 200, $300, the sky is the limit.

And therefore when you short something and you sell something at $10 the best, that you will get the stock going all the way down to zero.

If the company goes bankrupt or something like that.

So therefore you've got a maximum profit of $10.

But on the other hand, if you're wrong and the stock turns and starts going up to 50, 100, $300, your loss is unlimited.

So please keep that in mind.

It's a lot more speculative than I know that people like to short stocks, because the stock market goes down a lot faster than it goes up.

So when you're right, you can be right very quickly and in a big way.

Nevertheless, never lose that perspective of the risk involved in shorting.

First, we absolutely need to go through the famous Dow theory, which is an essential part of technical analysis.

Foundation and trading Charles Dow founded the Dow Jones Company in 1882, but he never wrote a book on this theory, and instead he set down his ideas on stock market behavior in a series of articles that got published in a Wall Street Journal in 1903, the year after Dow passed away.

Nelson compiled his essays in a book.

In that work, Nelson first coined the term of Dow theory, and following are the basic tenets of this theory.

The average discounts everything.

Stock prices quickly incorporate new information as soon as it becomes available, and once the news is released, stock price will change to reflect this new information.

Second tenet is the market has three movements.

Dow considered the market to have three phases a primary or secondary, and a minor phase, which he compared to the tide waves and ripples of the sea.

So he conceived market tide as lasting for more than a year and possibly for several years.

The secondary or intermediate trend represents correction within.

The primary trend usually lasts three weeks to three months.

These intermediate corrections generally retrace between one third and two thirds of the previous trend movement, and most frequently about half or 50% of the previous move, and according to him, the minor trend usually lasts less than three weeks within the intermediate trend.

The third premise of the theory is that market trends have three phases an accumulation phase, a public participation or absorption phase, and a distribution phase.

Usually during accumulation, it's a period where smart investors are actively buying or selling a stock against the general opinion of the market, and during this phase, the stock price does not change much because these investors are in the minority demanding, i.e. absorbing stock that the market at large is supplying.

Eventually, the market catches on this smart investors and a rapid price change usually occurs.

That's phase two of the market trend theory.

This usually when trend followers and other technically oriented investors such as myself, participate.

So you see, I'm not considering myself as a smart investor, but I still manage to make a lot of money in my trading.

This phase continues until massive speculation occurs, and at this point, the smart investors begin to distribute, i.e. to exit their positions to the market.

That's the phase three of the market.

Fourth tenet of the theory is that the average must confirm each other.

Now, referring to the industrial and the rail average which he had at the time, it was only there were only two types of averages that he had built up.

It meant that no important bull or bear market signal could take place unless both averages gave the same signals, thus confirming each other.

Fifth tenant is.

The volume must confirm the trend.

And finally, a trend is assumed to be in effect until it gives definite signal that it has reversed that belief that trends exist despite market noise and like stated in the first principle, market might temporarily move in the direction opposite to the trend, but they will soon resume the prior move.

The trend should be given the benefit of the doubt during these reversals.

So to determine whether reversal is the start of a new trend or a temporary movement in the current trend, it's not easy.

Let's be realistic.

And Dow theorists often disagree in this determination.

Dow define an uptrend as a situation in which each successive rally close higher than the previous rally high, and each successive rally low also close higher than the previous low.

So the reverse was also true for the downtrend.

Also important to note that Dow relied exclusively on closing prices.

He believed that average add to the averages add to close higher than the previous peak, or lower than the previous trough to have significance.

He did not consider intraday penetration to be valid.

Nevertheless, a lot of active traders these days use intraday levels for their application of the Dow theory.

Now to illustrate what we just talked about, we can see on these two figures what that meant in this determination of a trend and reversal and the concept of failure swing or non failure swing.

We can basically see on the on the chart on the left here that the market has basically been making a high a low new high low.

Still the low is higher than the previous low.

And now we have a failure of making a new peak a new high above point A.

So at sea the market starts turning.

It basically goes through the last low at point B at this valuation of the low at point B in point S, Basically, it would constitute a sell signal.

Here we've got a non-failure swing movement, which means basically the difference between the charts here on the left and the right is that A, B, c made a new high above A, but didn't manage to keep started correcting and started basically making a new low at point D lower than point B, and bounce back again to point E to finally keep on going down to point F.

Uh, people would disagree exactly on what constitutes a real sell signals.

Some would take that point, that break at S1 to be the signal to be able to sell.

Some would wait upon a point S2 to consider that a selling point.

And now, to illustrate what we just talked about, we can also look at this example of the euro against the dollar.

The market established a low around 120 starts, moving higher to point A, but cannot yet establish a higher high above 138 or so.

However, we can observe that it corrects down to point B and start going back up, this time breaking through point A and establishing a change of trend climbing up all the way to point C, at which point the market retraces back to around 130.

Establish a higher low than the previous low at point B, and we can also observe a failed break down around 129 at point D, and the market succeeds finally, to rally back past its previous high at point C, establishing a higher high near 149 at point E.

That's a typical movement that would basically establish higher high, higher lows.

According to the Dow theory, price will sometimes act as blocks to further advance until the market action enables the block to be lifted.

So, as being shown in the illustration above, the price runs into a first resistance, bounce off the support and then eventually manage to break through the initial resistance, which in turn becomes a new support for the market to pull back and to bounce off.

Personally, I strongly favor horizontal trend lines that act as support and resistance.

There are a lot cleaner to draw and a lot less subjective to the trader.

Unlike any diagonal trend lines, which really depend on the high and lows that you've defined.

For instance, this chart is a weekly chart of the euro against the British pound.

And as we can observe, we sometimes get a convergence of horizontal trend lines, which passes through several important resistance and support high and lows.

So the more conversions we can find and the higher the unit of time under observation, the more chances you get to see the price bouncing off this price convergence areas, or what I'd like to call price clusters.

We'll go back to this very central concept later.

But one important thing to remember is that a resistance or support does not have to be a very specific level of price, but rather a convergence zone of level of prices.

This concept helps to partially deal with the issue of false breakout.

Also, run numbers such as ten, 50, 200 bucks often act as a first level of resistance support where the market will bounce from.

Now let's look at another example.

Here we can see that this stock Lulu, for most of the first quarter of 2018 was stuck in a range between 75 and $85.

On many occasions, the price would either resistance around $85 and start going back down towards the lower band of the range.

As a matter of fact, the price hit five times the same level of resistance.

How do these resistance levels develop?

Well, I can think of three main reasons.

The first reason is that traders having a long position and deciding to exit or sell out of their long position.

So they create the first level of resistance.

The second reason that I can think of is like traders observing the resistance level and willing to sell short at this level.

So they've seen basically that this level held for the first time, and they're willing to come the second time and try to get short at this level to buy back towards the lower the range around $75.

And the third reason is basically stressed buyers that are being long above or close to the resistance level and willing to get out near their entry levels.

When finally the price of Lulu is ready to break above the resistance at $85 with a noticeable increase in the volume traded.

Then the market is really ready to start a massive bull run, as it can be shown on the on the chart.

Another example of a resistance being broken on the upside is this one near $130.

Here again, on many occasions the price hit the resistance around $130 and start going back down towards this time.

The moving averages which held the movement on the way down before finally breaking through the established resistance level.

Although this time we break through with that real increase in volume, we consolidate and we finally see a few days later, a massive gapping day with unusual increased volume.

So now you can understand the importance of resistance and support levels within the context of the Da theory, and how they can help us to define some of our trades setups, but also establishing profit targets or stop levels.

Now let's discuss the different styles in trading that we can encounter.

The first type is swing trading.

It's a type of trading technique which consists at detecting a trend in the market and position oneself long or short with a medium to long term view.

Within the main trend direction of this market, the position can be held 3 to 5 days, weeks or even months if the trend really gets established.

The Dow theory that we will review in the next chapter of this free starter kit course is usually behind the logic of the analysis and positioning.

The other style of trading that we can entertain day trading, which has become a very popular style in recent years.

It's also called intraday trading.

This technique consists of positioning long or short positions with a short term view of exiting before the end of the daily session.

Depending on the momentum of the market, positions can be held from 30 minutes to an hour or even several hours if the trend is strong.

In a way, the logic behind day trading is quite similar to swing trading, except for the fact that holding periods are much shorter, i.e. less than a day.

And although it's important to note that the majority of day traders will go back home flat, meaning no positions on their book.

Some might decide from time to time that a successful intraday trade might be turned into a swing trade, so they will carry the position overnight if they estimate that the potential extends far beyond the daily range.

And finally, we've got the last style of trading which is scalping.

Scalping is a very intense style of day trading which involves many ultra short term trades during the day.

The active scalper might end up with 100 plus trades every time, trying to capture like 10 to $0.20 for stocks or 10 to 20 pips in the case of foreign exchange, because the holding time frame is extremely short, a few seconds to a few minutes at most, and the risk management extremely tight, the size of position can be larger in comparison to swing trading position.

Because of the high turnover of trades, the underlying asset being considered has to be a very active liquid asset offering decent volatility.

With that being said, any impact of sudden news events leading to price gaps can make this type of scalping style dangerous in the sense that larger positions can suffer.

And so my very strong advice to anybody who would be tempted to go into scalping is to always pay attention, to leverage, even when they scalp again.

Here, some traders might decide from time to time that a successful scalp trade might be turned into an intraday trade, if they estimate that the potential can extend beyond the short term scalping frame.
